CCA of WA meeting | April 20, 2021 | 8 - 9:20 a.m.

Karin Anderson & Ann Chihan

Check-in and caring for each other: 10-15 mins

Shared:
Motivation/Overview
I'm graduating in late May with a PhD in learning sciences/human development and 
this will be my last two months (hopefully not but looking like it) at Cultivate Learning!

What's been inquired
I reached out to Sarah's team since my original goal was to explore what's been captured on WELS system (particularly on Notes) and
see if it matches with the belief, perspectives, and actual activities that coaches feel it's gathering it's intended information

What's been requested
I shifted the research direction due to timeline instead of interviewing coaches,
I've suggestd to Sarah if we could review what are the support resources/contents available from onboarding training

What's my goal
By having this information, this will add enriched information for what's happening in the field of early learning
as well as validate/provides triangulation/validation of what's captured in WELS (well transition to WA Compass I should say) + my naive hope to inquire intentional practices from a local to system level in a broader context.


Transcript begins:

Reporting system in WELS
Karin
Thinking about what comes out from Notes is interesting to think about

"Data entry is the bain of their [coach] existence"
The form and the system is not condusive too

Ann
It's [WELS] not really capturing the partnership, relationship, .... 

Karin
How much data captured on WELS is eventually translating to relationship?

I get the feeling from the state that what the wants are about how we measure providers' quality and journey and how the score is moving and as I'm involved with the WA COMPASS meeting...
I'm a fly on that wall (DCYF QRIS) and I really come to the conclusion that I really don't think it's been designed to intent on acknowledging celebrating coaching perspectives and achievements.

It's really about providers, how do you login, how do you apply grants, does it [the application] ping, does it talk to licensors... There's a QIP[Quality Rating Improvement] in it but I haven't heard or seen a lot of coach interaction in the WA Compass.
I'm interested in what's going to be collected.

Ann
I get the information - that it's all driven by funding and it's all focused on "child outcomes" and "provider focused"
There's a factor but the impression is "yeah yeah yeah coaching drives that [child-level outcomes] but we don't want to hear more about it [coaching]"

Karin
There's a research on sustainable improvement on systems and it's not valued in the sense of quality in the system. Should there be recognition or what nots? I don't know but it's an interesting thing that.... I think we can do a better job and 
better capture coaches' work and how they grow.

Caseload
Karin: 
As I also reflect on what you shared about ECEAP, there are minimum 20 facilities to 50 facilities on a licensed care for a CCA coach where as 20 caseloads for ECEAP coaches... That's the exponential of how many people coaches can influence, you get a once at a point.. 

Change in QRIS
Karin
If you look at the holistic score, we're in a unique position with the system change as we're facing the monster of instrinsic motivation - why without the ERS score (meter) of succes, how do I motivate myself to highlight success and with children and coaches, how do I bring success to it?
Before pandemic, we were thinking about the onboarding modules then the world was exploding and everything now is data driven...

Just thinking about what is the needs that coahces to know? We're facing this challenge of driving intrinsic motivation v. really tackling the environment/interaction that's driving those converations.

Ann
As I Step back from this a little bit from ECEAP v. CCA coach and case loads, CFT - coach framework training if you really implement that to fidleity, you should only work with eight to ten providers. That's only one coaching approach of many. CCA has adopted transformational coaching
and worked with Constant Hine (Extenal consultant) hired her to work interally to work with coaches; We have also adopted facilitated book study by bright morning in the past year and coaching for equity with the coaching system.
All the CCA of WA coaches received the book (coaching for equity) and participated in the book study from bright mornings and we have also invited ECEAP coaches to the trainings.

Min: How many coaches were trained in these PD sessions?

Ann: About coaches: 200 - 225 coaches 

Coaching approaches that seemed working well in the system
Karin: We as an agency made it pretty clear and intentional about anti racism + equity project and took the national level equity coaching training with them (coaches) and partnering with all of them on a positive note.
Cultivate Learning team seems to be providing a positive change on training coaches including webinars, revising training contents, etc: How to understand QRIS? How do navigate providers through journey system and other support soft skills + 30/60/90 checklists
Coaches have been growing the effectiveness of a coaching approach; One region particularly took this approach couple years ago and ended with the refelctive dialogue with their leads and really went back and checked for understanding with lots of stopping points and engaging.

Min: You mentioned something about training modules. Could you describe more about that?

Newly developed modules: 

Ann: 
Currently the modules are just administrative pieces - once we have 

- What is coaching
- What is coaching visit and essential elements of coaching visit so they are be prepared and they have a great support and relationship...

Change in what's considered as "coaching"
Karin 
What I've been going through (early phases of Technical Assistance) - TA framework that network office has developed, that was helpful but now we get new coaches and assigned to providers and it's a different landscape/understanding: How do you do that?

Ann
It's also interesting with the EA revision: Coaching is very diffferent than what it used to be : "Wait a minute, I can coach about everyhing?" Teach-to-testing has been taken away and real continuous quality improvement.

Min: It sounds like you have built up quite a partnership with the region that is great to hear!

Parntesrhip
Karin: 
Our partnership has really been great: Yes we've also done building frameworks, all these external things includes Cultivate Learning coming in and listening in "what is needed yesterday" but they are addressing and very "emergent" what si considered on top today
and that's what's addressed today and there's no "year-long" training topic yet we have to shift/pivot what ever the landscaope it is.

That's insightful (Coaches not having influence/authority to make changes - Min mentioned this earlier). 
When you get a provider that's "meh - I'm not engaging this Early Achievers" and they are not getting that buy-in to engage with providers and it's really even harder to let them go. 
If the provider is not intrnsically motivate to ... "I have this thing that..."

COVID-19 & Transformational coaching
Ann
This past year has been very difficult for coaches. Their providers are crying, worried about losing their business, and juggling this.
I got this about COVID-19, they don't care about Early Achievers revision.
I have someone who's ready to go, but we don't have an information to give away

Karin
We came the amazon drivers and deliver toilet papers, deliver masks etc and coaches were saying
"I miss coaching" but this is coaching. If you meet this need today and that is coaching (that is not Early Ahcievers coaching, but we're still coaching).
"You're checking in emotional well-being of people and what is needed today."

Virtual Coaching
Ann & Karin: "I need to get back to people" You can't see the two dogs... to be able to see everything (you don't see the full picture what's going on with everyone and when kids are on the phone screen).

Coaching notes
Ann: I worked with the directors in the first year and figure out how the resources are there and how to pull teachers out to at least once a week and pull it out from a classroom + that's is a part of the tansformational coaching.

Karin
When I come to a place that I can improve and understand int his area/career/professional life day-to-day and make my day easy. The kinds of support is "help me recognizes ways to what i can do edifferently with supportive dialogue" it's not my boss measuring my performance iwth metrics
and trying to celebrate and reflect what can be done did moved my personal goal a little bit especially is a supervisor of others (what are the role of providers') to have providers that are about "goals and suscces)

I(Coach) am your ally and it's more about "What do you want to push" and the pushing and inquiring different practices?

Min: What's also considered effective way of coaching that you have seen from the field?

Ann: Two effective ways
Business of child care trainings (logistical support) and this model also incorporates follow up coaching and coaches are getting more business aspects of coaching
Tieing training to coaching by regional needs

One of the regions offers "Learning Cycle Templates" and providers refelct learning and develop a goal and then providers and coach discuss next steps.

Min: Do you think you could share the template if there's a chance?
Ann: Here you go! [Link shared via Zoom chat]


Virtual context and acknowledging
Karin: I've been wondering about this in virtual context and your bucket fills "Thanks for the add + really isolated and we really missed out to that."
And the thing that makes it challenging and providers and coaches and really hurts with the pandemic - it just has to be acknowledegement and varieties of ways to celebrate these successes

Final comments
Ann:
One of the big things: ECE degree is designed to teach teachers to teach in a classroom
It doesn't help some of the coach (there's a support from Coach certificate) if they really want to professionalize coaching workforce and/or ultimately recognize other professional development than a degree. Or even ECE degree for director, make one for early learning acoaches, and alteranative pathwayas
Degress are not equitable and I don't know any other degree programs that's offered other than in English.

Karin
I didn't have PD pathway - I was guided towards and carried org/dev/leadership [when I was considering a career in ECE] because there's a whole reason to about being a mom of three, I couldn't quit and to fit in a degree and work as a para educator from K-12 developmental program. 
My ultimate goal as a certificated teacher so I chose a different content focused. 

The whole notion of college pathways experiences, we just need to understand what's the inequitiy pieces of the current system that are:
1) Language
2) Accessibility

Advanced for teacher/directors to provide them to persuing their dreams
	Our 2nd language providers are such assets to providers. I can't see them not grow and if we're requiring them certin level of education, we're going to lose them.
	Cost of onborading a salary and the cost of finding a new coach just makes everything even harder. 

Min: I have one last thing to share that this is what I've analyzed for the descriptive frequencies of how coaching activities are reported on WELS! What are your thoughts?


Validation of viz
Ann: Well, I'm not really surpsied that there are a lot of information here (pointing on Other categories) yet it's [WELS] is not designed for capturing coaching in the first place. 
Karin: I'm not really surpsised about there's a lot of reports and information about correspondance.

Ann: That's another function of system that coach to have touch point for 30 days if you have proivders that are not engaged, "how is it going?" send them another e-mail, "How are you?" ... 
Karin: I've also noticed that spike (That's a spike with pandemic and 

Ann: Resource linking as well.
Karin: Yes, Will we ever see the type of touch points + are we capturing time? It's frustrating. 

Talked about next steps and ended with acknowledgement for time/support. 