Kelli DB
January 6, 2021 | 10:00 - 11:00 a.m.

CQI coach survey result discussion

More very detailed questions about their professional learning -> Covid happened -> Went back to the PPI information from Karen's idea about

Change
1. PLC opportuniites by looking at samples of coaching
2. Kept it simple and took out ECERS information

Intent
1. Getting some thoughts around good sampling and
2. Thoughts around next steps for ECEAP coaches

Methods (People & Launching)
1. Jess, Lori, Cinthia Gosling, Ray, Xyzlora: Meet couple of weeks and a part of that editing and review processes
2. Launched in Fall Q

Results
	1. 28 coaches out of 120 coaches (23.3%) from 20 ECEAP contractors out of 56 contractors
	2. Number of sites that are predicting and a part of the coaching team (5-15 sites)
	3. Priorities: 
		Equity & Anti-bias training for providers and coaches
		Trauma-informed practices
		Inclusive practices
		Virtual coaching practices (Highest topic)
	4. Coaching Companion information also can be done for the context analysis
	5. Coaching specific Zoom/PLC specific questions about specific talk around share their successes 
	   and struggles for what they are wrestling with.
	6. PD options
	7. How do coaches learn best?
		Live presenters/webinars
		Sharing/listening from the field
		Only one from information in regards to articles
	8. What's the ideal time for the virtual meeting?

4. Comments
- Avenues to share information via Basecamp
- Basecamp: Responsive to the needs of the group
- Deeper level for PLCs in the future
- Virtual teaching!

Q. Contractor size bigger -> Bigger case load?
A. Does varies but generally yes!
Also the number of classroom size maybe better

Q. Internal v. External purposes
A. Tied into the PPI project and for the ECEAP team and the capacity and ability to provide

Q. Control beyond your control v. Control within your control
A. Some of these are within the locus of control

Q. Content analysis support?
A. Yes! Looking at the way by Topic based on the information moving forward

"QRIS" They are in their division and they are responsible for these information.

Q. Customer service piece around the Coaching team
A. Would like to seek out some support around this. 

Q. Coach v. Director (2 weeks)
A. Back in 2015 when Coaching became the requirement for ECEAP "Must have an access to Early Achievers" coach, 
that was an unfunded attachment as a contractor.
Contractor had to decide how to make it happen from their level.

Most contractors had an educational manager (curriculum/home visiting etc) and this person was added a coach.
As years have gone on, programs have added coaches to their staff as they've been able to financially
Very small programs (i.e. Omak with 1 classroom with AM/PM teachers), teacher was the coach.

Another program (ECEAP director was the staff outside of the classroom) so she was the person added as a coach person.

Another program from college environment who was hired as a contracted service (CCA of WA).

It's been a variety and what's the program budget allowed for. and decided by contractor (ECEAP director).
ECEAP requires an one person ECEAP designated