Synder et al. (2012) Who What How of ECE PD works in the settings

PD in ECE Recently conceptualized: Maxwell et al 2006; Winton 2006)
Terms are not cohesive
Descriptive info about how the PD has been implemented needed

Table 1: Categories of PD
Table 2: Follow up categories

Impressions: Very well organized contents!
Critique: Too many tables... why not vizs..


NPDCI (2008): What do we mean by PD?
Page 3:

“Professional development is facilitated teaching and learning experiences that are
transactional and designed to support the acquisition of professional knowledge, skills, and
dispositions as well as the application of this knowledge in practice. The key components
of professional development include: (a) the characteristics and contexts of the learners
(i.e., the “who” of professional development, including the characteristics and contexts
of the learners and the children and families they serve); (b) content (i.e., the “what” of
professional development; what professionals should know and be able to do; generally
defined by professional competencies, standards, and credentials); and (c) the organization
and facilitation of learning experiences (i.e., the “how” of professional development; the
approaches, models, or methods used to support self-directed, experientially-oriented
learning that is highly relevant to practice).”

NAEYC (n.d.) Website
"Professional development is a continuum of learning and support activities designed to prepare individuals for work with and on behalf of young children and their families, as well as ongoing experiences to enhance this work. 
These opportunities lead to improvements in the knowledge, skills, practices, and dispositions of early childhood professionals. NAEYC's professional development is aligned and grounded in NAEYC's standards and delivered in innovative ways."

Joo et al.(2020)
Some ECE programs also provide additional professional development for service providers of ECE programs (e.g.
teachers) in order to increase providers’ knowledge and skills, as well as enhance their teaching
and classroom management practices through regular training sessions, mentoring, and/or coaching,
going beyond merely providing pre-service or in-service trainings (Yoshikawa et al., 2013)

"In order to ensure that services are provided as intended, programs tend to administer regular training sessions, supplemented with mentoring or
coaching, and monitor program implementations on a regular basis" (p.6)

Yoshikawa et al (2013, p.1)
Cite: Yoshikawa, H., Weiland, C., Brooks-Gunn, J., Burchinal, M., Espinosa, L., Gormley, W. T., Ludwig, J., Magnuson, K., Phillips, D., & Zaslow, M (October, 2013) “Investing in Our Future: The Evidence Base on Preschool,” Society for Research in Child Development, Washington, D.C.

"Coaching or mentoring that provides support to the teacher on how to implement content-rich and
engaging curricula shows substantial promise in helping to assure that such instruction
is being provided. Such coaching or mentoring involves modeling positive instructional
approaches and providing feedback on the teacher’s implementation in a way that sets goals
but is also supportive. This can occur either directly in the classroom or though web-based
exchange of video clips."


